it's a war that's been fought without a
single bullet being fired or a bomb
being unleashed but the impact is just
as costly both the US and China have
lost billions of dollars in the
continuing trade war which has seen no
signs of abating and the impact is being
felt all across the globe we're also
taking long overdue steps to stand up to
China's chronic trade abuses have to do
somebody had to do it yeah me you're
creepy to me
from a dispute over unfair trade
practices and intellectual theft the
whole problem is that it's not just a
treat issue to a technology war between
two economic superpowers that is
threatened to split the world into two I
think this blimp will actually cause the
curtains to come up who will win this
nationalistic fight for technological
supremacy and dominance will countries
across the globe be forced to take sides
and what impact will this digital divide
have on the future of the global
economies
[Music]
you
Hong Kong a bustling city of over 7
million people and a gateway between
China and the rest of the world the
Special Administrative Region is home to
some of the world's busiest ports
ferrying goods to and from China but
today Hong Kong has been caught in the
middle of a fierce trade war between two
economic Giants the United States and
China like many other Asian tiger
economies Hong Kong is highly dependent
on China for trade for example imports
from China alone account for almost half
of the city's total imports compared to
just 5% from the US its economic
fortunes in areas such as tourism retail
sales and real estate are also
increasingly tied to the mainland
however the escalating us-china trade
war has now dampened investment
sentiment and consumer confidence
well the climate obviously been very
difficult because we're here in Hong
Kong which is at the doorstep of China
and a lot of our businesses dependent
upon the us-china relationship so though
the last couple of years has been pretty
turbulent mainly because of the
uncertainty around what's happening next
and how quickly things have changed
[Music]
modern terminals is the oldest container
terminal operator in Hong Kong and part
of the Hong Kong seaport alliance the
port sees thousands of containers filled
with Goods passing through its facility
every day but the flow of these Goods
has slowed in recent times something CEO
Peter Levesque is paying close attention
to we're seeing that Hong Kong the
volumes are down about 8% so far this
year Hong Kong is primarily a trend
shipment hub so 70% of all the volume in
Hong Kong is being transit to or from
China or other locations and in Asia and
so we're hoping that that the
uncertainty can kind of come to an end
here and some agreements can be made so
that we can get back to normal but
normalcy is unlikely to return anytime
soon
in August this year US President Donald
Trump announced another 10% tariff on
300 billion US dollars worth of Chinese
goods in what's seen as a sharp
escalation in the ongoing trade war
that's a big one for us we had the 50
billion than the 200 billion at 25
percent now we're at this final 300
billion at 10 as you mentioned it's the
products that are impacted in that final
300 billion those are consumer products
so it's textile clothing toys Footwear
electronics finished goods electronics
and those are all the things you buy for
Christmas
last month the US president announced
that the 10% tariffs would be increased
to 15% and would come into effect on
September 1st and the 15th of December
this year this latest move means that
the world's two largest economies have
now erected trade barriers covering
virtually all of the us-china annual
two-way merchandise trade amounting to
660 billion dollars the trading curve
surprised most everybody the scale and
scope and the frequent threats of
escalation and also worrying is the lack
of de-escalation and the inability of
authorities on both sides to find ways
to reduce the tensions and off-ramp from
some of these tariffs and other
penalties so I think the overall
trajectory has been surprising and
unsettling you do see even starting from
October last year some of the exports
from South Asian countries to even China
has been declining and then you do see
another smaller decline in April all of
these sort of like correlates and
coincide with the tariffs that US have
imposed so exports on the whole have
sort of slowed down they are of course
winners and losers but overall people
are loose goods from China like toys
which are often shipped to the US
through Hong Kong will now be more
expensive for American consumers in the
light of the upcoming holiday season toy
stores like Barton's child's play in
Washington DC will feel the full brunt
of the trade wall
I think some of it is just the
uncertainty where you know I'm placing
an order with a company who may have in
their price list this is the price but
if the tariff goes through prices may
jump to this price well we have a
container on the water right now which
up until a few days I was basically
praying that it got in before September
versus getting in a couple days after
September because it would have impacted
my cost right away which would have been
because we work on a tight margin on
this it would have impacted our
consumers cost so the losses incurred
from the trade war on the US side have
been to US consumers who are paying
higher prices on the order of on average
about several hundred dollars per family
due to the tariffs the Chinese are
paying a cost and that they're not
exporting as much so they're losing
sales what's wrong is is actually the
tariffs are paid by the American
importers and then the prices are passed
on to consumers u.s. President Donald
Trump has long accused the China of
engaging in unfair trading practices and
intellectual property theft despite
several face-to-face meetings to resolve
their differences both sides have failed
to come to any agreement it all began in
2018 with a small amount of tariffs
being levied on both sides the tensions
started to rise in September 2018 when
America slapped 10% tariffs on two
hundred billion US dollars worth of
Chinese goods in response China imposed
tariffs of sixty billion US dollars
worth of American goods a further
escalation occurred in May when
President Trump raised American tariffs
on Chinese goods to 25% the Chinese then
responded in equal measure Trump says
the latest tariffs that have come into
effect this month a punishment for
China's failure to live up to its commit
this includes buying more American
agricultural products and stemming the
flow of the painkiller fentanyl into the
United States which he blames for
fueling an opioid crisis China has hit
back against these latest tariffs with
two tranches of counter tariffs on 75
billion dollars worth of u.s. goods
analysts believe that the situation
would only get worse before it gets
better
Trump administration's as I think
famously known for has multiple goals I
want to reduce the bilateral trade
deficit they want to increase purchases
they want to open market access in China
they wanted to deal with Chinese
industrial policy intellectual property
rights they've had a whole thing I don't
see the possibility of a broad deal
reached by Xi Jinping and Donald Trump
that addresses the the fundamental
anxieties of both sides and stabilizes
things I think that's the least likely
outcome that we can predict the whole
problem is that it's not just a trade
issue if it was just a tree issue the
situation it would have been resolved
last year right China has the money to
buy the US has things to offer China and
that's it the whole situation have been
resolved last year so clearly it's not
just about tree
it's against this backdrop of tariffs
and counter tariff measures that Wow is
CFO man Juancho was detained in Canada
last December on a US warrant huawei is
a Chinese telecommunications giant that
makes everything from mobile networks to
smartphones the US wants to put in is
Hmong on trial for allegedly violating
Iran sanctions and lying about it to US
banks accusations that her lawyers
dispute all of a sudden the world of
technology has become entangled in the
trade war and in one fell swoop the
tariffs Pat has now escalated into a
technology war between the world's two
economic Giants in the battle for
technological dominance who will emerge
victorious
[Music]
the United States has gained the
reputation as the world's most powerful
country by virtue of its political
economic and technological dominance
coupled with its ability to project
power on a global scale but the world's
second largest economy China is catching
up fast it's now not only wealthier it's
also now technologically more advanced
but militarily powerful of late a new
Cold War is brewing between these two
economic behemoths only this time it's
not a war over territories but a
nationalistic battle for technological
superiority and dominance China's
telecommunications giant Huawei is among
a few technology companies which had
caught between these two feuding
economic powerhouses it has been viewed
as a national security threat by the US
security agencies and banned from buying
or acquiring American parts and
technologies is Huawei a
telecommunication company or a proxy for
Beijing's intrusive security apparatus
I do think qua way does pose a potential
security threat that the US officials
are right to take seriously the
telecommunications infrastructure of any
country is part of that nation's
critical infrastructure and it is I
think the responsibility of American
officials to take seriously the threat
of vulnerabilities and the potential for
a a foreign actor to exploit
vulnerabilities in that infrastructure
for purposes of espionage or inflicting
harm in the event of a crisis of
conflict you know that Huawei has a very
close relationship with the Chinese
government this is an inescapable fact
of Chinese companies they are required
to have a communist party president
presence and they are accountable to the
Chinese government on the other hand I
think it's important to recognize that
keeping Huawei out of American markets
or banning American companies from
selling components to Huawei doesn't
necessarily make the US fully secure
against Chinese eavesdropping spying
surveillance just because your supply
chains aren't connected doesn't mean
that they can't still intervene
but other analysts say the issue has
been completely blown out of proportion
they believe that the u.s. is targeting
hallway surely for commercial reasons
why way is now the largest telecom
company in the world it has even
overtaken Apple as the world's second
largest smartphone provider
it has also emerged as the world leader
of telecom equipment including 5g
technology communications seen as the
next milestone in the digital revolution
the race to install 5g mobile networks
reflects this growing rivalry between
China and the US one that will determine
political and economic fortunes of
nations from many decades to come I
think number one because sati and ry all
together they've been making up like 30
to 40% of the market leaders on the
smartphone's or on the communication in
your structure so if you look at the
whole big picture for example if you
look at the 5g development or the audio
communication technologies or products
you only see pretty much a few names
like wow ice at Te Ericsson Nokia and
Samsung so there is no us come the
inside and the back of it all you do get
the sense that where the u.s. is
concerned it is luckily also because of
they are insecure about the rise of
China as superpower with a global
technological edge over them right so
how do you resolve that that's not
something that you can actually resolve
but at the end of it all I think it's
also largely because of the fact that
many countries are uncomfortable aren't
able to deal with a rising China with a
more assertive China
Huawei works with a broad range of us
suppliers for its products including
chip makers such as Intel and Qualcomm
as well as Google for its Android
operating system the restrictions
imposed on Huawei mean that it will lose
access to critical products and services
from these companies for example Google
has now confirmed that the next flagship
Huawei phone will not have licensed
Google Apps these restrictions would
cost its consumer business about 10
billion dollars in revenue growth
such a development has generated a lot
of concern for mobile phone dealers like
mr. Lowe Lao owner of gee world mobile a
mobile phone shop in Mong Kok Hong Kong
the Huawei brand has a strong customer
base in Hong Kong but that's about to
change
following the ban I'm gonna hold an
anthem oh yeah hold on man wait
yo-yo ma phone Katina a kid - Hamidah
choker yeah Michael Young Hangzhou you
know go hey we like a mega mega man come
hold on wait I'm Sam yeah yeah it's
Annie
yeah what a moody Madam's over they saw
why Okura hey little dough what is Julia
beautiful come to Georgia hi I go by
annum my oh man you go a 1000 Seussical
job girl
Jerome though I found Gemma called Iike
your Jonathan don't fall hmmm sexina
there with my knitting Amontillado
yellow yeah dildo we can go hang on the
impending breakup between US tech giant
Google and Huawei has now forced the
Chinese tech giant to move towards
self-sufficiency by developing its own
in-house software or operating system to
replace Google's Android that would help
reduce its reliance on American
technology for its product growth
so for overseas they started to for
huawei actually they already are
unannounced inside China they called a
hormone OS outside China they called
Harmonia where's quoi we already
announced that they are going to use
this in the IOT area the Internet of
Things
however they think what we think that
this system can also go into the
smartphone area quickly if they want the
technology breakup may now lay the
foundation for an economic decoupling
between the US and China splitting the
world along a lasting digital divide
known as the digital Iron Curtain I
think in many areas in some areas sorry
in some areas tours already split for
example in the technological a sphere
the mainland Chinese they don't use
whatsapp they use WeChat and they use
their own version of Twitter as a
treasure trove right so in some aspects
you can see that the words might be
divided into two may not necessarily be
bad because I personally believe that it
was big enough for a lot of these things
actually happened this blade will
actually cause the curtains to come up
and so we are using for example for very
layman terms you may actually have to
carry two phones for a while
to go to different country like what we
are experienced when we are using 3ds
but the u.s. remains particularly
vulnerable in one area of the tech world
the supply of rare earths rare earth
elements are used in a wide range of
consumer electronics including iPhones
electric car motors military jet engines
satellites TV monitors and lasers China
today dominates the world's rare earth
output accounting for over 70 percent of
the world's supply the continuing trade
tensions could force Beijing to block
the sale of rare earth elements to the
u.s. like the date against Japan in 2010
following a territorial dispute over the
Senkaku Islands
[Music]
James Litton ski is the co-chair of MP
materials a company that operates the
only rare earth mine in the United
States he says that substance is highly
essential for the production of magnets
that power a range of advanced
technologies any disruption to the
supply of the elements could have a
significant impact on the US technology
sector whether the world likes it or not
the the Chinese do dominate the rare of
supply chain as well as downstream some
of the other industries and I think that
as you think about the scale of
technologies that require these
materials to have a single point of
failure whether it's China whether it
would be the UK or Brazil or any single
country that is a very difficult thing
for for manufacturers and in countries
to tolerate it would certainly be
extremely disruptive to large aspects of
the economy and so I wouldn't begin to
be able to estimate the scale or the
duration of how that would play out even
more worrying the growing trade tensions
between China and the US as well as the
potential technology decoupling could
cause a split in the structure of the
global economy how disruptive will that
be to the economic landscape of this
region
we'll the world economy be able to
survive a protracted technology war
between two of the world's largest
economies
you
the escalating trade war between China
and the u.s. hides a deep rivalry
between the world's two preeminent
economic powers at the heart of the
issue is a tussle between presidencies
China dream and president Trump's
America first policy and it's in the
area of technology and innovation that
the battle is seen to be more intense
for example numerous restrictions have
so far been imposed on China's
investments in high-tech sectors and
that includes the huawei trade ban
tight of visa controls for Chinese
students studying in the u.s. high-tech
areas and the persistent demands by the
US for China to alter its intellectual
property and industrial policies deemed
critical to China's ascent as a leader
in technology u.s. president Donald
Trump has even ordered US companies
including Apple to leave China is it not
about other issues as well like for
example intellectual property copyright
laws the the ability or the the
willingness of the Chinese to actually
concede and let foreign companies take a
big estate or ownership of Chinese
companies state-owned enterprises and an
epic of it all you do get the sense that
where the u.s. is concerned it is
largely also because of they are
insecure about the rise of China as a
superpower with a global technological
edge over them right so how do you
resolve that that's not something that
you can actually resolve the issue that
is on the table is which country will be
the leader of the next generation of
technologies and and reap all the
economic benefits from being that leader
so to take an example if you look at the
United States in the past two decades
the u.s. mastery of a whole range of
Internet related technologies and 4G
cellular signals data transmission
signals allowed American companies that
dominate entire sectors and American
companies reaped massive profits because
of that China would like to be the
country that is able to replicate a
similar experience and American leaders
obviously want American companies to be
the leader of the next generation of
technologies and reap all the benefits
and all the jobs that in that entails so
the the competition involves struggle
over technological leadership with large
implications for for trade and for
economic growth but when two giants
collide the effects will be felt all
across the globe Asia is no exception
the continuing tariff war is a further
sign that the global economy is now
moving closer towards a severe slowdown
I think the economic losses are starting
to actually bear fruit for example if
you look at Singapore some export
numbers in May and June right you can
see that electronic sports in particular
came off by about 32 percent
year-on-year in June our non or domestic
exports are now back to the 2016 levels
which if you recall Terron 16 was
actually a pretty bad year for exports
because the global economy was actually
coming off before the Federal Reserve
actually went back on QE 3 so we're
looking at a pretty dismal global trade
situation because Singapore is basically
a bellwether or a leading indicator for
the rest of the world where exports are
concern given the fact that very export
oriented and we're very exposed to
globalization itself so the only
positive you can call a positive thing
is that we are not the only ones in the
situation any country there is very
exposed to the global supply chain there
is an integral part of the supply chain
that is very reliant exports will be
hurt and that basically means a lot of
countries in Asia there is a likelihood
that some companies will try to relocate
some of their supply chains however in a
globalized economy there is a limit to
how much that can be done because it's
it's almost impossible to completely
figure out where all the components to
any single product are coming from and
variably they're their source there's
supplies and parts they are sourced to
China in the US because those countries
are best position to make those
components or parts and and so the more
likely a result will be a a decline in
regional trade activity as tariffs that
unavoidably take a hit on on the trade
volume prices go up and
and that patient growth will suffer as a
result
serial system is a Singapore based
electronics distribution company that
sits within that global supply chain
it's a worldwide network of companies
that helps move goods across countries
and into the hands of businesses and
consumers and for the CEO of serial
systems the trade war is at the top of
his mind since we are in the region
sound Asia especially I mean if you talk
about China's other big customers are
ours what we Nova agree tell me all
these are also mainly all these are also
our customers basically if the trip was
going to be prolonged
of course definitely it will be affected
because the trade wall will impose a
tariff to the China so if your business
from China and China manufacture are all
sporting to us if 50 percent of business
is going to us then definitely you will
be affected but as the US and China
relationship grows further and further
apart it'll also put Asia in a
vulnerable position the fear is the
technology cold war between China and
the US could lead to the creation of a
bipolar world it's one where separate
and digital policies and standards will
divide the Chinese and US spheres of
influence splitting the supply chains
and
stack will countries in Asia end up
having to choose sides between team
China or Team America for many countries
in Asia we've always benefited from
being under the US security umbrella and
there was not for just one or two years
those for like several decades after the
Second World War
suddenly now we have a China that is so
powerful that and so influential that we
are increasingly being drawn into its
influence into its umbrella all right
hopefully we don't get into a situation
where we have to choose between the US
or China
but as things stand I think it is
inevitable that you probably will have
to choose between one and the other
sooner or later the world today is too
interconnected really to have anybody
choose sides and that's one of the
things about global trade it's it's a
way of connecting countries and cultures
in a dialogue that helps people want to
understand one another it's probably
prevented its fair share of wars so I
don't think that that you know this idea
of regionalization of supply chains and
that kind of thing or choosing sides is
as much of a reality or as much of a
threat I think they they need is other
quite badly I mean no doubt u.s. is in
technology they are the technology
leader but all the technology leader
your components are what you need to
have a manufacturing base and China
provide a very conducive place for you
to manufacture if you add as place yes
you can see but the supply chains might
not be so good and efficient as compared
to China so they need each other badly I
do think that there are a number of
scenarios as to how this trade you know
current trade war could play out and it
could lead to some bifurcation in
aspects of the global economy but I
think it will be and maybe there will be
certain industries where where there'll
be choices made certain areas of
technology
a bifurcation of systems or a splitting
of systems is seen as a real threat to
the current globalized world as both the
US and China try to assert their
technological dominance world leaders
may be forced to make some difficult
decisions taking up the offers of one
country could mean losing favor from
another China's promotion of the belt
and Road initiative carries a
possibility that the Chinese will demand
as a as a consequence of the pistil of
financing and lots of investment they
may ask in return that these countries
buy into the Chinese ecosystem so to
speak the technological ecosystem and
there may be some countries that feel
obligated to do so but it's really
unclear how far the Chinese can really
make this expectation at the end of the
day it is up to the decision makers in
each country to decide what system our
technology best serves the country's
needs I don't think you have a choice
right if you have a population of 1.4
billion people who are highly
entrepreneurial who basically your
neighbors you have no choice you will be
drawn within that sphere how other how
many other big centers of influence are
there in the world today eurozone is
declining growth is 1% debt levels are
extremely high and that's holding back
the growth in the eurozone
the US has got a twin deficit at une
this visit is actually growing it's very
very far away and as in Crete becoming
increasingly insular so what choices do
you have what I'm trying to say is that
perhaps the choice will be made for you
you know you don't even have to choose
it at the end of the day
will there be an end to this trade war
will the global economy eventually
suffer the full brunt of this unending
battle for technological supremacy this
is a period when there's about as much
fear of the future as there's ever been
[Music]
it was once known as the great copycat
nation of the world it copies almost
anything and everything instead of
focusing on new innovations it
piggybacked on the technological
innovations of others
it would then flood the markets with
their own cheaper alternatives there's
virtually no high tech product that
China's cloners can't copy but the
copycat era has now come to an end
China today wants to be the market
leader in high-tech areas such as
telecommunications systems robotics and
autonomous vehicles through its made in
China
and it's the rise of China's high-tech
prowess that has made the u.s. rather
fearful of China's rapid technological
advancements the Chinese recognized that
as their economy matures they need to
compete in these more technologically
advanced sectors so they have a very
strong incentive to try to dominate
these next-generation technologies in
hopes of generating the millions of jobs
that will be required to help offset the
declines and sectors that are becoming
less and less competitive so Xi Jinping
and the Chinese leaders are determined
to ensure China becomes a key leader in
technology for these economic incentives
and all the other benefits that come out
of it and then he also has a political
incentive he is positioned himself to be
a tough leader for China a leader who in
his words does not back down an inch in
fact presidency has even called on his
nation to embark on a new long march
invoking a key turning point in the
country's communist history the first
long march involved a grueling 4,000
mile military retreat by the communist
party forces in 1934 as they fled the
nationalist army under Chiang kai-shek
they then regrouped and eventually took
control of China in 1949 70 years on the
country is bracing itself yet again for
another losing and protracted trade war
with the US this allusion to long march
it's also an appeal to the patience and
tolerance of the population in case you
have an economic fallout the appeal to
sort of nationalism I think so I think
that would be logically I think
reasonable way I think for them to to
move forward because what you do not
want is to have trade tension resulting
in an economic slowdown that can spill
over to domestic political instability
right
as long as you have some sort of
nationalism to kind of sort of not kneel
but to tell a minimize a domestic
political you know the spillover that
would be the way in response to China's
decision to slap duties on seventy five
billion dollars of American products
president Donald Trump pressured all
American companies and businesses to
leave China but is it a practical move
given how deeply intertwined these
American businesses are in China and
high costs of doing business in America
I think there's been there's not been a
whole lot of success in this stated goal
of moving manufacturing from China to
the United States there has been some
progress in having investors from the
United States and elsewhere move some of
their production capacity out of China
but the vast majority of that is going
to Southeast Asia Mexico Europe Africa
Central Europe only a tiny bit is going
back to the United States the loss of
American manufacturing jobs owes to a
number of factors
partly to just a reality that America
has a maturing economy and economies
that mature become less competitive in
certain sectors and this is true
virtually every economy that has reached
the stage of development the US economy
you know jobs like making clothes and
toys that just are not competitive in
the US and they're not going to be
as the disagreements drag on and without
a clear solution to the trade debacle
the continuing trade dispute has put
tremendous strain on the global economy
pushing it closer towards a possible
recession our pessimistic scenario you
can imagine where both sides continue to
escalate with tariffs and other
restrictions as as the Chinese tend to
use to limit the entry of u.s. products
and you could see at certain point those
restrictions could tip the growth in
both countries into a recession and
perhaps even drive the global economy
which is undergoing slow growth and
reeling from the impact of influences
such as brags that and tensions in other
parts of the world a fragile global
economy that's hit with an escalating
series of tit-for-tat penalties by China
in the u.s. the two largest economies in
the world could tip the global economy
into recession and that would be
obviously bad news for everyone I don't
think a deep recession is what the
market is talking yet but I think a
technical recession if things carry on
it's pretty much in the cards if the
third quarter ends up just like the
second quarter then pretty sure there
will be a technical recession towards
the end of the year
I don't think people we will be in a
situation that's as bad as the global
financial crisis in 2009 where there was
a liquidity crisis where there was a
withdrawal of funds there was a flight
to safety where the capital markets are
concerned I don't think we will come to
that situation unless tomorrow the US
and China basically declare a full-scale
trip war on each other then yes then we
might actually have an exhausted denier
shock to the system we might have a
Black Swan event coupled with the fact
that you know in October you know know
do brexit is non looming as well right
I'm not a pessimistic I don't think that
will happen
on many counts China is not yet a
technology superpower The Economist
Intelligence Unit for example doesn't
even rank China in its top ten list of
countries best suited for technological
innovation but China has already proven
that miracles are not impossible and it
has been able to do that of late China's
growing technological prowess is now
making Washington nervous but the US
efforts to fight back has only made the
problem worse for both countries and the
world at large so the losses incurred
from the trade war on the US side have
been to US consumers who are paying
higher prices on the order of on average
about several hundred dollars per family
due to the tariffs
there's also losses in jobs and and then
on the Chinese side there are also
threats of higher prices for commodities
that the Chinese now have to import from
other countries from the US and the
potential shedding of many jobs from
sectors that are losing their export
mark in the u.s. not to mention the hit
to world growth global economy is
expected to lose on the order of several
hundred billion dollars due to the
ongoing trade wars we have now two new
two superpowers that are not comfortable
each other so it affects not only the
two countries relation and all
International Forum that involves the
two country and because they are such
such major economies in the world and it
hit trade tension imposition of tariffs
that reduces the sort of light increases
the cost of doing business costs to
consumer and constable will negatively
affect not only the two countries but
globally I would say at the core this is
about
economic nationalism broadly defined
China has always been nationalistic
about how they view their economy they
want to help Chinese companies Chinese
industry they China first their bumper
sticker but it might as well be the US
has been more committed to globalization
limited barriers the multilateral system
until President Trump Trump is in many
ways very similar to Xi Jinping and the
policies of economic nationalism that
he's embraced look a lot like the
Chinese it's not China first it's
America first and so the thing about
economic nationalists is that they don't
make a clear distinction between the
economic and the security realms right
they think everything is part of
national security because it feeds into
your national power and a key component
of national power right now is advanced
technologies as the world heads towards
a technological Iron Curtain one thing
is certain the u.s. effort to stop the
rise of China as a world technology
giant is doomed to fail if anything
analysts believe it may have come too
little too late I don't think it can
really stop the rise of China I mean
China it's a big economy there are a lot
of learning effects compared I know
shifting comparative advantage that has
resulted in because of its large markets
and technological development
development of human capital and things
like that so it will continue you know
although the growth has certainly slowed
down it will slow down further but but
it's not something you can contain it
will delay them because if you if you
obstruct them
from some of the key technologies right
now it will just basically spur them to
actually spend more on R&D and to
innovate even faster pace and we all
know anecdotally how hungry how keen
they are to actually develop their own
core technologies right so there were
just basically speed up the process you
might be able to delay them for a couple
of years but you can't stop them at the
end of the deal
you